**Gary Bencivenga**

**Marketing Bullets**

**The Credo Technique**

Bullet #1: In your copy, especially your Welcome Letter, never be afraid to say with clarity and boldness precisely what you believe and specialize in. Like the original IBM, have a company religion and evangelize it with zeal.

I call this the Credo Technique. Credo (pronounced CRAY-doe) is Latin for “I believe.”

But it is much more than a technique. It is an expression of your most strongly held core values which serve as a clarion call to gather the like-minded faithful of your marketplace.

**The Two Most Powerful Words in Advertising**

The problem is, words like FREE and NEW and the big-claim style of advertising they reflect, have been so overused, they have become bright red flags that instantly scream to your prospects, throw me away!

You have heard such claims too many times. Your own exquisitely sensitive mental spam filter rejects all such messages instantly, as you think to yourself, ***YEAH, SURE. And those, Top Gun, are the two most powerful and influential words in advertising today. Yeah, sure.***

Get rich quick! Yeah, sure (toss it).

Lose weight fast! Yeah, sure (toss it).

***Never make your claim bigger than your proof. And always join your claim and your proof at the hip in your headlines, so that you never trumpet one without the other.***

Another way is to sandwich your big promise inside an IF …THEN construction in your headline.
When you say IF (followed by a requirement your prospects have to meet), it seems to magically switch off and bypass their Yeah, Sure alarm and usher you right in their front door to sell.

**If you’ve got 20 minutes a month,
I guarantee to work a financial miracle
in your life.**

The formula: a reasonably easy requirement, followed by a strong promise. Think up ways to use this for your own product.

Weight loss product by Richard Simmons:

**If you’ve got 20 minutes a month,
I guarantee a thinner, healthier you.**

**The Most Important Advertising Question**

***Here’s the question: What are we really selling?***

For example:

You are not selling grass seed. You are selling a greener lawn.

You are not selling boilers and BTUs. You are selling warmer, cozier winter nights at a 27% fuel savings.

You are not selling baseball tickets. You are selling memories of sunny afternoons that a father and his children will cherish forever.

Start asking this same question of not just a single product or service, but of your entire enterprise.

What are you really selling? Are you sure? What else could it be? How might you repackage your product, or add to it, to trigger new demand or crack open a whole new market? Think big! Starbucks sells more than coffee. Disney World sells more than rides. Ask “What are we really selling?” often enough and I guarantee this—bold new answers will arise and with them, major opportunities to open new markets and explode your response.

**The Secret of the Red Shirts**

***In short, intention facilitates perception.

“Seek and ye shall find” is one of the oldest truisms of life. But it works only when you seek for one thing specifically, exclusively and persistently.***

To find a red shirt, you must look for a red shirt and only a red shirt, and keep looking for a red shirt until you find one. Then you can move on to yellow shirts, or whatever else you desire in life.

So, Top Gun, what “red shirt” should you be looking for in your marketing campaign? What do you think is the one thing that could most easily double your response? A breakthrough headline? Hot new premium? A lapel-seizing lead for your letter?

Decide what it is, then start looking for it today. And don’t close your eyes until you find it.

**The 7-Letter Word that Instantly Multiplies Your Creativity**

***SCAMPER*** is an acronym created by Alex Osbourne, the father of creative problem solving.

Each letter stands for something simple you can do to get a fresh take on anything—a headline, offer, product, market, layout, anything. It instantly gives you 11 easy ways to multiply your number of new solutions.

Whenever you’re trying to solve a marketing problem, just start playing with each of the capitalized words in the following list:

***S = SUBSTITUTE*** (a new, surprising or more contemporary element for a tried and true one).
 ***C = COMBINE*** (successful elements from two or more different sources).

***A = ADAPT*** (a winning headline, product, offer, etc. from another product category).

***M = MODIFY, MINIFY OR MAGNIFY*** (any element).

***P = PUT to other uses*** (who else can use this and why?)

***E = ELIMINATE*** (one or more of the elements that have always been included, and see what happens).

***R = REARRANGE, REVERSE OR REDEFINE*** (any part or the product, selling process or problem you’re confronted with).

**Can You Pick the Winning Headline?**

From now on, whenever you face the question, “Which of these headlines or main themes will likely outpull the other?”, one of the most reliable ways to know in advance, without spending a dime on testing, is to ask, “***Which offers the more compelling proof?”***

***This is so effective in predicting winners because your prospects use two razor-sharp questions to cut through their mail: “Is this of interest to me?” … and second, “Is it believable…or typical advertising hype?”***

And that brings me back to something else John Caples said. He defined effective advertising as, “A believable promise to the right audience.” Far too many copywriters and marketers focus on just the promise (the flashy, fun part), and ignore the more demanding challenge of building belief. But without belief, nobody buys. Please mull that over again, slowly enough to let it seep into your marketing memory.

***Without belief, nobody buys.***

Remember this always—

***Almost everyone in the world, in every field of human endeavor, is desperately searching for someone to believe in. Be that person and you can write your own ticket.***

Today, ask yourself how you can make your advertising more believable. Be ruthless—push yourself hard on this. Be a “yeah, sure”skeptic when you read every sentence and see what you’d change to make your copy almost impossible to refute. Ask yourself, “What proof would I need to persuade a fair-minded jury beyond a reasonable doubt that my copy rings true?”

**The Secret of How to Turn a Setback into Triumph - in Marketing or in Life**

***Every adversity carries within it the seed of equal or greater benefit.***
If, in the grip of defeat, discouragement or heartbreak, you look for that seed and nourish it, you will lay the groundwork for great triumph.

It’s not what happens to you that determines your happiness and success in life, but how you respond.

My biggest successes and advances in direct marketing have universally come from defeat. Earlier in my career, whenever I lost a split-run test against someone else, I hated the experience. I despised it with a passion. My only consolation for having to swallow such poison was to turn it into medicine—somehow find the good. I learned to ask, “Why was I beaten on this? Why did my copy fail?” Once I figured out the answer, I vowed, “this will never happen to me again!” And I was that much tougher to beat the next time.

***Mark my words—your setbacks will yield the secrets of your greatest breakthroughs!***

**The Most Persuasive Tool in Advertising and How to Use It**

“How can I sell more product?,” is the marketer’s eternal question.
If you sincerely seek the answer, just follow my suggestion.
When it comes to creating advertising, most advice is for the birds.
But the greatest secret of success can be found in two little words.
No, they’re not, as some have written, those standbys NEW and FREE.
Neither are they NOW and SALE, or even YOU or WE.
No, to open minds and wallets and have prospects eagerly buy,
The most persuasive words in advertising are simply, REASON WHY.
Whether you spread your message on TV, the internet or by letter,
You must explain the REASON WHY your product is much better.
And while you’re at it, don’t forget that your audience won’t believe you
Unless you give the REASON WHY what you claim is true.
To close the sale, these two little words once again point the way.
Just give me another REASON WHY I should act today.
There you have it, clear as day. If you want to sell, here’s how:
Give good reasons for these three questions—why you, why true, why now?
This little secret works like magic, for all products, in all seasons.
If you want to sell like a superstar, just boldly state your reasons:
First, the reason yours is best. Second, a reason to believe,
And third, a reason to act right now—give these and you’ll receive
More sales than you can imagine, gold and riches heaped on high.
The world showers you with treasure when you give the REASON WHY.

Reason-why headlines:

**Slice - A New Soft Drink with 10% Real Juice**

**How to Win Friends and Influence People**

**Kleenex towels absorb 50% more because they’re two layers thick**

**Fire Sale! 50 % off everything in our store because of a recent fire**

Take a hard look at your most critical marketing materials, especially any that are underperforming. Ask if you are giving reasons why in each of these three areas:

1. Compelling reason(s) why your product is superior to other solutions your prospects might choose, including doing nothing.
2. Compelling reason(s) to believe that what you say is true.
3. Compelling reason(s) to seize the opportunity today.

**The Secret Trigger Word That Makes More of Your Prospects Say Yes than Any Other Words in the English Language**

Top Gun, if you want to boost your results by very significant numbers—virtually automatically!—***start filling your copy with more “becauses.”

Why? Because it works!***
And, for best results, always follow your “becauses” with compelling reasons.

In the end, there is no great mystery, nor any unethical manipulation involved in the use of the word “because.” In fact, it’s the most honest, straightforward, aboveboard and ethical type of persuasion you can use.

Why?

Because (there it is again) people act in their own self-interest. That’s a given. And when you give people rational, logical and honest-to-goodness reasons to act in their own self interest—voila—they do!

**The Secret of Happiness (A Holiday Message)**

We experience our moments of purest joy at precisely those moments when we are causing it in others.

***It is a truism of life—whatever we give out comes back to us, multiplied.***

It’s vital for all of us to understand that our prospects and customers are people, too . . . and people like to connect with others who are unafraid of showing a little humanity, of taking some time now and then to share a laugh, feel some warmth, express some sympathy, do a favor, help a charity, be a friend.

***Whatever your product, however impressive your expertise, people will never care how much you know until they know how much you care.***

**How to Get Anything You Want in Life**

Let me tell you something—I’ve never bought an aspirin because I’m a member of a demographic group or because I want a relationship with my druggist. I buy aspirin because I have a headache! ***Headaches, problems, desires—human wants—these are your markets!***

I have many suggestions, but I promised to keep these Bullets short, so let me name three of my favorites for now:

***Keep your eye on bestseller lists.*** These are straws in the wind of what the public wants. Example: go to Amazon.com and look up the 25 best-selling books in your market. They will instantly give you lots of ideas on what people in your market are looking for. Similar titles could make red hot informational premiums to add to your own offer.
***Watch more movies because movies are the playgrounds of human emotion.*** As a marketer, you want to be an expert in human emotions. As you watch, try to identify every emotion the actors are playing, and let yourself feel it intensely. It’s fun and instructive.You’ll also open up your emotional channels as never before. This will help you immensely in writing more emotionally powerful copy because you will feel what you are writing about.Remember that in direct response, for clarity and for maximum believability, we must express our thoughts in logical sequence, in rational sentences, offering lots of proof and “reasons why” along the way. These are rational elements that make up the bones, the skeleton of your presentation. They are critically important.But emotions are the flesh and blood of your copy. They are the life juices, the beating heart of your ad. The vast majority of products are sold because of the need for love, the fear of shame, the pride of achievement, the drive for recognition, the yearning to feel important, the urge to look attractive, the lust for power, the longing for romance, the need to feel secure, the terror of facing the unknown, the lifelong hunger for self-esteem and so on. Emotions are the fire of human motivation, the combustible force that secretly drives most decisions to buy. When your marketing harnesses these forces correctly, you will generate explosive increases in response.
***Follow Your Heart.*** Your brain is the smartest organ in your body, but your heart is the wisest. In any activity, whether in marketing or in life, listen to your heart.If your heart is saying one thing, but your brain (or the “expert” running the meeting) is forcing the issue in another direction, take a step back and listen to that voice from your heart. Don’t be afraid of that inner voice. It is not just your best friend. It is you.You will live a much happier life, be much more influential and become a much better marketer because other people’s hearts vibrate to the same string. The more you listen to your own heart, the more you will hear—and influence—the hearts of others.

**How to Be Lucky**

Three Factors That Make You Luckier

1. ***Build up your “risk muscle.”*** In most people, the fear of loss is a much stronger motivator than the desire for gain. Knowing this can be quite useful in boosting your advertising response, as it can be very persuasive to spell out what your prospects will lose by not taking action.
   * Jim Rohn has said, “If you don’t push timidity into a corner, it will push you into a corner.”
   * ***The remedy: build your risk muscle, like any other, by using it more often, even in small things. A little more risk adds spice and adventure to life, and can greatly increase your good luck. Fortune favors the bold.***
   * A perfect example in marketing: make an offer to your prospects so outrageously generous, only a fool would refuse it. In one daring stroke, you can have a blast, electrify your marketing team, outflank your competitors, seize momentum, wow your prospects, trigger fantastic word-of-mouth, spark some media buzz, and uncork a geyser of new business.
2. ***Make “persistence” your job description.*** Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent.
   * Want to bag more elephants in your business? Apply your own rule of nine contacts—through an e-zine to your industry, a free online e-course to your best prospects, a personal direct mail campaign, free offline newsletter, simple follow-up calls, anything proven to work in your industry and that offers something of value repeatedly to your best prospects. Nine hooks dangling in the water—or 25—will catch more fish than one.
3. ***To reach a destination, you must first have one.*** In my experience, the most important ingredient in filling your life with good luck is clarity— clarity about what you want.
   * ***In every major activity, first devote a few moments to clarify and clearly picture your objective. When you are crystal clear about what you want, and then envision success vividly and repeatedly, all the universe conspires to help you.***
   * Every day, before each major activity you undertake, remember to imagine with clarity exactly what you’d like to experience, and you will be astonished at how lucky you become.

**6 Little Words That Boost Your Sales**

You can start with this advice to young writers, from poet Ezra Pound:

***“Curiosity. Advice to the young. Curiosity.”***

And how can you easily become more curious and thus more interesting? I commend these words from Nobel prize-winning poet, Rudyard Kipling:

***“I keep six faithful serving men
Who teach me well and true
Their names are What and Where and When
And How and Why and Who.”***

The team captain of your six faithful serving men is Mr. Why. If you aspire to write compelling copy or be a marketer with a Midas touch, ask at least one good “why?” every day and, like a dog with a bone, gnaw on it until you’re satisfied.

**The Secret of the Monkey’s Fist**

In every sale, either in person or in an advertisement, there are at least two sales that have to be made, not just one. This is true of anything you sell, and the sooner you realize this, the sooner you can become a master at selling anything, in person or in print.

The main sale, of course, is the product or service you ultimately want to sell. ***But before you can even get a chance to sell your main product, you must first sell your prospect on giving you an audience.That is known as the sale before the sale. In short, you must sell the chance to sell.***

So this is the little-known but amazingly reliable formula for opening—and then closing—many, many more sales, in person or in direct response advertising. Make the first step for your prospect irresistibly easy to take. This means that whether you’re selling in the mail, on the Net or in space, you shouldn’t start off trying to sell your product. Break it into smaller steps. As a first step, offer something that makes it easy, irresistibly easy, for your prospect to say yes.

***As Hopkins put it, “Any apparent effort to sell creates corresponding resistance.” Therefore, do NOT approach your prospects, either in person or in print, with an obvious effort to sell.***

There are countless ways you can achieve this gentle, seductive first step in your marketing. The free sample of the actual product is one way. A magalog or direct mail letter that reveals interesting, valuable information right in the copy is another. A free checkup, audit, analysis, first lesson, consultation, etc., are yet more. So is an enclosed quiz or treasure hunt or free informational guide on a topic of high interest to your prospects. The Gary Halbert, dollar-bill- stuck-to-the-top-of-the-letter is still another. The variations are endless.)

***I have found that offering valuable, free information that targets your prime prospects is the most versatile, economical and usually most effective execution of this strategy.*** It works so well because it not only makes it much easier to open the sale with your best prospects, but also sets you up perfectly to close it.

For example, if you sell a carpet-cleaning or housekeeping service, you can offer your prospects a free booklet entitled, “How to Keep Your House Free of Health-Destroying Dust Mites.”

If you sell a course on Internet marketing, you can offer a free e-book such as, “The 100 Most Successful E-mail Advertisements Ever Written.”

If you manage a real estate office in, say, Marietta, you can offer a free “Trend Report—Sale Prices of Marietta Homes, Condos and Co-Ops over the Last Six Months.”

If you’re a chiropractor, you can advertise a free guide, “My Seven Best Secrets for Having a Pain-Free Back in Just Six Weeks.”

If you’re a headhunter, you can offer a free report, “How to Launch Your Career on the Fast Track—By Getting Today’s Best Employers to Call You.”

**The “Fuzzy Dice” Secret For Exploding Your Sales**

***Well, the wise old salesman told me you’ll corral lots more customers by intercepting them wherever they are looking for someone like you.***

***Applied to the internet, this means matching your selling process to the way people search online.***
Let’s say, for example, that you sell car accessories. Now, you could create a website, and a series of Google and banner ads, trumpeting your product line, “Car Accessories.”

Logical enough, right? It’s what most companies do. Trouble is, people don’t go online searching for “a product line.” Almost nobody searches for “Car Accessories.” That’s way too broad. When I typed those words into my search bar, I got more than 49 million results! If I were a thorough shopper and wanted to check out each of these vendors for just 20 seconds apiece, I’d have to sit at my computer 24/7 for the next 31 years (without a single bathroom break)!

More than 49,000,000 advertisers are offering their wares under “car accessories,” yet almost nobody searches for “car accessories.”

But people do go online searching for a single product.

For example, they go online searching for “Fuzzy Dice” (you know, those tacky, spongy dice that dangle gaudily from the rearview mirror).

Or they’ll search specifically for “Leather Steering Wheel Covers.” Or “Car Stereo Subwoofers.” Or “Mercedes Replacement Hood Ornaments,” etc.

***Since that’s how people search, that’s how you should sell—with a mini website devoted exclusively to Fuzzy Dice. Or another devoted to Leather Steering Wheel Covers. Or another offering Car Stereo Subwoofers, or Replacement Hood Ornaments, etc.

Sell the way your prospects buy—with a rifle shot like “Fuzzy Dice,” not a shotgun like “Car Accessories.***” Like the wise old salesman said,intercept your hot prospects where they are looking for someone like you!

That’s it, the secret of how to sell anything online. Go vertical and go deep. Use highly specialized mini sites dedicated to a single star product, and deliver an in-depth, fully developed sales presentation to capture your prospects and convert them into customers. Once they are customers, you can then branch out, offering related follow-up sales pitches, via specialized ezines, which lead them to other highly targeted mini sites. And just keep repeating the process for every major product or service you want to sell.

Don’t sell a “stock market newsletter.” Sell a special report on “Three oil service stocks that may soar in the next 12 months because of the worsening worldwide oil squeeze,” and give me all the reasons to buy into that story.

Don’t sell “retirement planning.” That phrase brings up more than 41 million results! Create a website offering a video on “How to Retire to Mexico and Live Like Royalty on $500 a Month or Less.” Run a Google ad with the same headline, and everyone searching for “retirement in Mexico” can easily find you and respond.

Don’t sell “gourmet foods.” Sell, “Imported Smoked Scottish Salmon,” and give me the full sales pitch on why it’s the best I can buy.

The internet is the ultimate vertical selling machine, a niche marketer’s dream, but only if you use it right. ***The general rule: The sharper your focus, the better your results***. Don’t sell horizontally, sell vertically. Don’t sell “Car Accessories.” Sell “Fuzzy Dice.” That’s how you’ll intercept the “hot pockets” of customers eagerly searching for someone just like you.

**How to Name Your Product**

***The best product names have a benefit built right into them.***

For example, Kleenex embodies the benefit of clean. So does Mr. Clean.

Fat Blaster, Wonder Bread, Mr. Peanut, Arrid Anti-Perspirant, Vein Away Cream—great names.

I love the name Blue Blockers, Joe Sugarman’s famous sunglasses that shield your eyes from harmful blue rays.

If you’re well-known in your field, consider naming your product after yourself, as did Ransom Eli Olds with his Oldsmobile and also his company, Reo Motors, named from his initials. The benefit here is that your market respects you and knows that if you’ve put your name on a product, you’re proud of it. Louis Rukeyser could not have chosen a better name for his newsletter than Louis Rukeyser’s Wall Street. It quickly became the most successful launch in the history of investment advisory publishing.

**A Simple 7-Step Formula for Succeeding Online**

1. ***Carve out a niche.*** Be known for something specific. Use the rifle, not the shotgun. When in doubt, go narrower than others in your field. For specific examples, see Bullet #16, “The Fuzzy Dice Secret for Exploding Your Sales.”
2. ***Give something valuable away free.*** Within your narrow specialty, create an ezine (or course, collection of tips, series of mistakes to avoid, seasonal recipes, any regular communication) that demonstrates your expertise and is so helpful, interesting and informative, your prospects will want to keep getting it regularly.
3. ***Promote your free ezine every way you can***—in Google ads, articles you write for the media, speeches before trade groups, press releases, radio interviews, communications with your customers, take-ones at related retail outlets, space ads, newspaper classifieds, direct mail, co-ops and swaps with others in your industry, etc. Explore any and all avenues.
4. ***Capture email addresses.*** Never give away your valuable free tips on your website! Share them only in exchange for an email address when someone signs up for your ezine. Consider offering one of your best free tips in the form of a free report to induce people to sign up. This automatically gives you permission—and the means—to stay in touch with your market, building your most valuable direct marketing asset, your list.
5. ***Pile on the value.*** Work hard to make your free ezine so valuable and interesting, your prospects eagerly open it. As in romance, woo your new prospects with your bouquets of insight and pearls of wisdom. Don’t be shy about opening up and getting personal. Become a friend. Resist the urge to keep lunging at them with sales lust. Your goal: get your prospects into the habit of welcoming your emails like love letters because they are so valuable, useful and interesting…not in the habit of deleting them on sight because they are self-serving sales pitches. The rule: establish trust before you sell with lust.
6. ***Never sell hard in your ezine or free course.*** Instead, dance the two-step. The biggest mistake even savvy marketers make in their ezines is selling too much, too soon, too hard, and too often. Let your ezine be an oasis of value in a desert of hype. Always, and especially in your first several communications, let the value of your free information far outweigh your sales copy.
7. ***For even better results, capture their physical addresses.*** Once your prospects have a relationship with your ezine, offer them another free gift. It must not only be valuable, but something you have to send to their home, such as a report, CD, DVD, paperback book, newsletter, cool poster, free sample, gift certificate, etc. Why something physical? Because this gives you the right to ask for—and get—their physical address.

**The Most Important 9 Word Sentence in Marketing History**

***A gifted product is mightier than a gifted pen.***

Said Bill Bernbach, “The magic is in the product,” not in the copywriter’s pen. Or as he put it another way, “Advertising doesn’t create a product advantage. It can only convey it…No matter how skillful you are, you can’t invent a product advantage that doesn’t exist.”

If you are the copywriter, our 9-word rule means that the star of your ad should always be your product and how it uniquely benefits your prospects.

It means that you should begin every assignment like an investigative reporter, asking your client and his or her best salespeople a torrent of questions, starting with these 10…

1. Why is this product made the way it is?
2. What consumer problems, desires, and needs is it designed for?
3. What’s special about it—why does it fulfill a consumer’s needs better than the competition?
4. Who says so besides you?
5. What are your strongest proof elements to make your case believable?
6. What are all the product’s best features and how does each translate into a consumer benefit?
7. If you had unlimited funds, how would you improve this product?
8. Who are its heavy users—the 20 percent who generate 80 percent of sales?
9. What irresistible offers might trigger an explosion in sales?
10. What premiums can be tossed into the mix to press your prospects’ hot buttons?

**Controversy! Gunfire Erupts Over “9 Most Important Words in Marketing History”**

The “USP” is probably the most successful and reliable mass marketing strategy ever created, and it’s based squarely upon the nine-word sentence, A gifted product is mightier than a gifted pen.

***It’s the most reliable copywriting formula ever discovered: A brilliant strategy (a message based on a product’s unique benefits) + a compelling execution (an ad that shows how this unique benefit improves the prospect’s life) = blockbuster success.***

**Which Offer Pulled Best?**

It’s called the “bogo” offer—short for buy one, get one free.

Another strong offer, especially around the holidays, is the bogo’s first cousin, the gogo—short for “give one, get one free.”

Checklist of Proven Offer Ideas to Boost Your Response:

1. ***The offer is the second-most-important component in any direct marketing effort.*** The first is your list; the third is your copy.
2. “***Make your offer so great that only a lunatic would refuse to buy”*** —Claude Hopkins.
3. ***A believable reason for a special offer boosts response.***
4. ***Never sell more than one thing at a time.*** Sell one thing per ad and sell it thoroughly.
5. ***However, always try to come up with a deluxe version of your basic offer.*** Offering a deluxe option also subtly switches the decision your prospects face from a “yes-or-no” choice to an “A-or-B” choice, often resulting in a higher response and almost always a higher average sale.
6. ***Always test the same type of offer being repeated by your competitors.***
7. ***Make your guarantee as strong as you can.***
8. ***Test a price ending in 7.***
9. ***“Till forbid” is where the largest treasure is buried!*** In any business, repeat business is where the real money lies. That’s why it’s usually much smarter to sell an ongoing product or service than a one-shot. Whatever your business, try to figure out how you can market it as a club, a membership, a newsletter, a periodic maintenance service, or some other continuity relationship.
10. ***A “takeaway” offer can be extremely effective in boosting response.*** If you have a hard deadline after which no orders will be accepted or a limit you can place on the number of orders you’ll fulfill, by all means mention it. It will significantly boost your response.And whatever limit you set, either in time or the number of allowable orders, mean it!
11. ***If prices are going up, say so!***
12. ***Always offer a unique and alluring premium or set of premiums.***
13. ***Offer an extra bonus for prompt response.*** This is sometimes called an “early-bird bonus,” or a “fast 50″ gift, as in “Free Gift for the First 50 Who Reply.”
14. ***Sometimes a “mystery” early-bird bonus, described with tantalizing copy, can pull even better than a specific description.***

***With each of your offers, let your genuine love, empathy, and affection for your customers shine through. They will feel it and respond in kind.***

***Other enticing offers you can try, depending on your business:*** free shipping, free sample, free trial, free information, free estimate, free consultation, or even free “money”—such as a coupon, discount certificate, or facsimile currency or check that’s valid toward a purchase. Notice the common element in all these proven offers: the word free, which reduces your customer’s risk and makes it more enticing to say yes.

**16 Rules for Success**

1. ***Get and stay out of your comfort zone.*** I believe that not much happens of any significance when we’re in our comfort zone. I hear people say, “But I’m concerned about security.” My response to that is simple: “Security is for cadavers.”
2. ***Never give up.*** Almost nothing works the first time it’s attempted. Just because what you’re doing does not seem to be working doesn’t mean it won’t work. It just means that it might not work the way you’re doing it. If it was easy, everyone would be doing it, and you wouldn’t have an opportunity.
3. ***When you’re ready to quit, you’re closer than you think.*** There’s an old Chinese saying that I just love, and I believe it is so true. It goes like this: “The temptation to quit will be greatest just before you are about to succeed.”
4. ***With regard to whatever worries you, not only accept the worst thing that could happen, but make it a point to quantify what the worst thing could be.*** Very seldom will the worst consequence be anywhere near as bad as a cloud of “undefined consequences.” My father would tell me early on, when I was struggling and losing my shirt trying to get Parsons Technology going, “Well, Robert, if it doesn’t work, they can’t eat you.”
5. ***Focus on what you want to have happen.*** Remember that old saying, “As you think, so shall you be.”
6. ***Take things a day at a time.*** No matter how difficult your situation is, you can get through it if you don’t look too far into the future and focus on the present moment. You can get through anything one day at a time.
7. ***Always be moving forward.*** Never stop investing. Never stop improving. Never stop doing something new. The moment you stop improving your organization, it starts to die. Make it your goal to be better each and every day, in some small way. Remember the Japanese concept of Kaizen. Small daily improvements eventually result in huge advantages.
8. ***Be quick to decide.*** Remember what General George S. Patton said: “A good plan violently executed today is far and away better than a perfect plan tomorrow.”
9. ***Measure everything of significance***. I swear this is true. Anything that is measured and watched improves.
10. ***Anything that is not managed will deteriorate.*** If you want to uncover problems you don’t know about, take a few moments and look closely at the areas you haven’t examined for a while. I guarantee you problems will be there.
11. ***Pay attention to your competitors, but pay more attention to what you’re doing.*** When you look at your competitors, remember that everything looks perfect at a distance. Even the planet Earth, if you get far enough into space, looks like a peaceful place.
12. ***Never let anybody push you around.*** In our society, with our laws and even playing field, you have just as much right to what you’re doing as anyone else, provided that what you’re doing is legal.
13. ***Never expect life to be fair.*** Life isn’t fair. You make your own breaks. You’ll be doing good if the only meaning fair has to you is something that you pay when you get on a bus (i.e., fare).
14. ***Solve your own problems.*** You’ll find that by coming up with your own solutions, you’ll develop a competitive edge. Masura Ibuka, the cofounder of Sony, said it best: “You never succeed in technology, business, or anything by following the others.” There’s also an old Asian saying that I remind myself of frequently. It goes like this: “A wise man keeps his own counsel.”
15. ***Don’t take yourself too seriously.*** Lighten up. Often, at least half of what we accomplish is due to luck. None of us are in control as much as we like to think we are.
16. ***There’s always a reason to smile.*** Find it. After all, you’re really lucky just to be alive. Life is short. More and more, I agree with my little brother. He always reminds me: “We’re not here for a long time; we’re here for a good time.”

**The One Word That Teaches Almost Everything**

***“Why?” is the world’s best teacher, a one-word university more valuable than a king’s library. As far as learning is concerned, a day without raising a good “why?” is a wasted day.***

To Write Great Headlines,Remember This Formula:
**I = B + C**

**I = B + C.Interest equals Benefit plus Curiosity.**

In pondering this, I realized a great truth about headlines: your level of interest is directly proportional to the presence of two factors: benefit and curiosity. Either one without the other is a devastating weakening.

For example, even if a headline is well-written, promises a benefit, and also has the look and right words of a “classic,” strong headline, if I suspect that I can predict what the article will likely say, I will skip the article. ***Predictability kills curiosity!***
On the other hand, when an article promises something of interest and the title leaves me wondering, “How could this be?”—in other words, when its content is unpredictable—it inflames my curiosity and I have to read it.

For example, look at some of these great Halbert headlines and see if you don’t agree—they not only promise a benefit, but also ignite your curiosity by being so unpredictable:

**“How Does An 84 Year Old Woman With Extreme
Arthritis, A Fractured Knee…And…A Torn Rotator Cuff
Humiliate Young, Expert Golfers By Hitting Every
Tee Shot Out Of Sight Straight Down The Fairway?”**

**“The Amazing Fighting Secret Of
A Very Deadly Mexican Who
Doesn’t Want Anybody To Ever See His Face!”**

**”How To Make People Stand In Line And
Beg You To Take Their Money!”**

**“The Amazing Facelift In A Jar
Used By Hollywood Stars
Who Don’t Want Plastic Surgery!”**

**“How Almost Any Man Can Get
Non-Stop Sex…While…He Is
Waiting To Meet His Dream Lover!”**

**“Russian Scientists Discover Simple Secret
To Younger, Healthier, Beautiful Skin!”**

**“Free Report Reveals Little Known
Secrets Overweight Women Use
To Look 15 Pounds Slimmer
Than They Really Are!”**

**“The Amazing 10-Minute Secret Used Religiously
By The Most Overworked People In The World…
To Have Better Sleep, All-Day Energy,
And Supercharged Brainpower!”**

**“Jacksonville Man Discovers Strange
New Way For The ‘Little Guy’ To Get
Rich In Real Estate!”**

**“Half-Dead Cuban Washes Ashore In Miami With Strangest Secret That Can Double The Income Of Most Americans!”**

**The “Borden Formula” for Giving a Great Speech… Or Writing a Potent Headline**

This four-step formula was created by Richard C. Borden. Many years ago, Borden was the Administrative Chairman of the Department of Public Speaking at New York University. He was also one of the nation’s most popular speakers and sales trainers, as well as an author of books on selling and public speaking.

To give a great speech, Borden recommends that you imagine your audience shouting out these four emotional outbursts as you give your talk (this will become clear in a minute)…

***1. “Ho hum!”
2. “Why bring that up!”
3. “For instance?”
4. “So what?”***

***Fear is a cowardly bully. Stand up to it, and it runs.***

***Your opening must electrify your audience, shake them awake, or, as we Borden students like to put it, “crash the ho-hum barrier.”***

Don’t start out with . . .

“The subject which has been assigned me is the reduction of traffic accidents.” Ho-hum indeed!

How much more interesting to start your speech with . . .

“Four hundred and fifty shiny new coffins were delivered to the city last Thursday.”

That’s a grabber that will instantly interest your audience as they wonder, “Why?”

Several of my headline tests are quite advanced and would require more space and illustration than I can provide here. But Borden’s step #1 is an excellent starting point: ***Does your headline crash the ho-hum barrier?***

When judging headlines that my clients have asked me to critique over the years, I would often explain my “shake-me-awake-at-three-a.m.” test, which is the same as Borden’s step #1. If you were to shake me awake at three in the morning and read me your headline, would I care? Would it address a concern of such urgency that I’d immediately blink my eyes awake and want to know more? Or would I beg you to let me go back to sleep?

**The #1 Strategy for Exploding Your Productivity This Year**

***Just 20 Percent of Your Daily Activities Are Responsible for 80 Percent of Your Success, Income, and Personal Happiness***

Here’s how Richard Koch puts it in another of his books, 16x—Real Simple Innovation for 16 Times Better Results:“If you think about this, you’ll discover three breakthrough insights for how to run your life or organization:

1. Knowing the best uses of your energy is much more important than trying harder or working longer. To get 16 times better results, you don’t have to do anything essentially different from what you’re already doing at the moment. You just have to do more of what you’re already doing that works fantastically well.
2. Most of what you do is a waste of time. Compared to the few things that work fantastically well, it’s dust in the scales. You might as well stop most of what you do!
3. You can put less energy in, yet get far better results, if you just concentrate on the things that produce fantastic results.”

It has always amazed me how often clients will pour so much of their time, effort, worry, and money into saving a drowning product, while letting their biggest money-makers go unattended for long stretches!

**The 3 Greatest Copywriting Lessons I Have Ever Learned**

‘Writer’s block” is just a symptom of a rather easily cured malady—”LRS,” or Lazy Research Syndrome.

It took me a while to realize that the best copywriters are the most tenacious researchers. Like miners, they dig, drill, dynamite, and chip until they have carloads of valuable ore. John Caples advised me once to gather seven times more interesting information than I could possibly use.

For starters, I had to realize that great marketing and copywriting require thinking—the ability to keep turning things over in your mind, in a relaxed way, probing, searching for better options until it all comes together. Writing is thinking on paper. To do it well, you must be able to think things over before you put pen to paper or fingers to keyboard.

Another way is to regularly and vividly imagine yourself to be a great copywriter, to see and feel this as your identity even though you may not be there yet.

Socrates said it best: “The key to living is always learning how to live.” Applying this to copywriting, we can say, “The key to copywriting is always learning how to be a better copywriter.”

To sum up, they are (1) your knowledge of good salesmanship …
(2) your thoroughness and tenacity as a researcher … and (3) your desire to harness the great power of your mind—to turn ideas over in your head in a relaxed way; to noodle out and play with a range of solutions instead of just one; and, most important of all, to vividly see yourself as the star you were born to be, to envision and feel yourself living a big life, not a small one, a life filled with achievement, the respect of your industry, the security and freedom of financial independence … all the rewards that copywriting, one of the world’s most lucrative professions, can and will bestow upon you if you are willing to keep drinking thirstily from these three inexhaustible founts of knowledge.

**Three Secrets For Multiplying Your Productivity, Success, Income, and Personal Happiness as a Copywriter or Marketer**

1. ***Apply the 80/20 Rule to Everything:*** So the best way to multiply your productivity is simple—always be looking to free up more time for your big-payoff activities by ruthlessly eliminating the dozens of low-payoff ones that you unwittingly tolerate.
   * Example: One of the most successful marketing executives I know keeps a framed sign over his desk and carries an index card in his shirt pocket with the same message—“Is this leading me to my main goal?” He checks that reminder numerous times a day and saves countless hours each week by staying on track—getting out quickly from time-wasting phone calls, meetings, gossip, etc., and relentlessly getting back to the big-payoff activities for himself and his company.
2. ***Harness Your “Hour of Power”:*** Whatever your highest-payoff activity is, start each day with your “hour of power.” If you’re a writer, write! If you’re in an occupation where you can’t perform your highest-payoff activity upon rising, say, if you’re a salesperson or merchant who won’t be in front of customers until later in the day, invest your early “hour of power” in learning and thinking about how you can perform better.
   * The legendary management guru Earl Nightingale counseled that if you want to put your career or business on the fastest possible success track, devote an hour each morning to thinking about how to serve your clients better. “If you’ll spend one extra hour each day in the study of your chosen field,” said Earl, “you’ll be a national expert in five years or less.”
3. ***How to Gain 6 to 8 Hours of Productivity Every Day:*** Just before going to bed at night, review a problem, question, or creative project you’re working on. Since headlines are the most important part of any ad, I like to hand off this task to my subconscious mind rather than knock myself out. Here’s my method… As you get sleepy and the shop foreman of your conscious mind is about to turn over control to your brilliant but underutilized “night manager” (your subconscious mind), submit your request as follows. Say to yourself, “Great subconscious mind, I don’t want to work on this matter too hard, so please just figure this out for me by the morning, while I sleep peacefully.” Then forget it—let go of it completely—and drift off to sleep.

**The Secret of How to Sell Anything**

One new insight I gained late in the game is that the most successful copywriters I’ve ever known possess mastery of two separate fields of knowledge…

1. Mastery of their craft.
2. Mastery of success principles that trigger outsized achievement in any field, whether copywriting or anything else.

Harry Browne’s methods applied to copywriting: In advertising, the situation is different because you’re addressing a mass audience at once. Nevertheless, you must still discover what most of the buyers want to buy before you start to sell. To do this, you can use surveys and focus groups. You must go out and talk with your current customers and find out what’s most important to them. You can ask your best salespeople what appeals always seem to work best in their presentations. You should research which previous ads have pulled best and which have flopped. Best of all, you can use split-run tests as well as multiple Google ads, each built around different benefits, and scientifically measure which pulls the highest before you roll out with the best.

***All these are necessary steps to execute the master strategy of salesmanship we are discussing here: “Find out what others want and help them get it.”***

***Says Browne, “The moral is simple: A salesman cannot change a buyer’s desires; he can only demonstrate better methods of satisfying them.”***

It’s so much easier to find and then appeal directly to an audience that’s already motivated and let them do a big part of the work of selling themselves!

***One master rule you can take to the bank: Every headline you write should, at the very least, assemble the right audience, one already motivated to hear the rest of your story. If it doesn’t, your headline is weak and will hobble response.***
