Ad Writer’s Arsenal

48 Super Weapons To Help You
Create World-Beating Ads That Speak Directly to Your
Prospects’ Most Powerful Emotions!

• How to multiply the selling power of your ads by targeting your
prospects’ 29 most powerful emotions …

• 6 major objectives to instantly connect with your prospects’
DOMINANT EMOTIONS in your headline and lead copy to drive
readership and response through the roof …

• 8 ways to spot powerful dominant emotions your prospects
already have that could skyrocket your response rates …

• Simple 5-step exercise to connect your products’ benefits with
your prospects’ most powerful response-boosting emotions,
exploding your sales results!

Dear  Business  Builder,

Since we began publishing The Total Package in June, readers have
sent  me  thousands  of  emails  with  suggestions  for  articles  and
questions  about  specific  issues  that  concern  them  the  most.

Today, I’m going to answer two of the questions I get asked most
often:

1) “How can I strengthen my ad-writing skills?” and ...

1) “How can I better identify the emotions my prospects already
have that could push response to my direct mail, Internet, print, TV
and radio ads over the top?”

In a very real way, the answers to these questions are the super
weapons of direct response marketing: Together, they give you an
astonishingly  powerful  arsenal  for  producing  world-beating  ads.

Super Weapons #1-#29
29 powerful emotions your prospects already have –
and how they can multiply response to your ads

Connecting  with  your  prospects’  most  dominant  resident  emotions
gives you a big edge over writers who focus only on the benefits a
product  provides.

And recently, I’ve been buried under a blizzard of emails asking,
“How can I know how my prospect is feeling?”

2

My answer: It’s easy.

First, you can be sure that every customer or prospect you will ever
talk to shares at least 10 common fears ... 11 common frustrations
... and 8 common desires ...

10 fears every human being experiences

1. Fear of the Unknown ...

2. Fear of Embarrassment ...

3. Fear of Failure ...

4. Fear of Poverty and Want ...

5. Fear of Loneliness ...

6. Fear of Dependence ...

7. Fear of Betrayal ...

8. Fear of Illness ...

9. Fear of Death ...

10. Fear of all of the above for people who are close to us.

11 frustrations that drive us nuts ...

1. Frustrated by feelings of Inadequacy ...

2. Frustrated by the feeling that we’re Inconsequential or
Unimportant  ...

3. Frustrated when we feel Unappreciated ...

4. Frustrated when we feel Powerless or Trapped ...

5. Frustrated when we feel Used or taken advantage of ...

6. Frustrated when we feel Oppressed ...

7. Frustrated when we feel Deprived of things that others enjoy or
even take for granted ...

8. Frustrated when we feel Demeaned in key relationships and when
others seem to take us for granted ...

9. Frustrated by constant feelings of Guilt imposed upon us by
parents,  religious  institutions  and  even  by  our  own  expectations  of
ourselves  ...

10.  Frustrated  with  the  feeling  that  life  is  going  by  too  fast  and  that
we’re not getting all we could be out of it ...

3

11. Frustrated with things that shouldn’t be difficult or time-
consuming, but often seem to be.

And each of us shares 8 common desires ...

1. To feel OK about our past and to find justification or forgiveness
for  past  mistakes  ...

2. To feel free and in control of our own lives ...

3. To feel happy ...

4.  To  feel  alive,  excited  and  exhilarated  ...

5.  To  feel  physically,  intellectually,  emotionally  and  spiritually
fulfilled  ...

6. To feel accepted, respected, admired, needed, desired and loved ...

7.  To  feel  successful  ...

8. To feel optimistic, even excited about our futures.

From the moment you begin thinking about writing a sales message
until you hit the last keystroke, you should be constantly asking
yourself  ...

1. How do each of these emotions relate to my prospect’s life in
general – and how, by acknowledging and validating them, can I
make my sales message resonate at a visceral level ...

2.  How do each of these emotions relate to the benefits of the
products or services and the free gifts I’m writing about, connecting
each  tangible  benefit  with  an  emotional  benefit  –  showing  how  the
tangible  benefit  assuages  a  fear,  eases  a  frustration,  or  fulfills  an
emotional  desire,  and  ...

3. How do each of these emotions relate to my offer and the entire
process of ordering – assuaging fears and easing any frustrations my
prospect may have with similar offers he’s accepted in the past.

This is the crucial first step to the success of your direct response
copy.  Read on and I’ll show you exactly how to do it.

Super Weapons #30-#35
Accomplish  these  Six  major  objectives  and  instantly
connect  with  your  prospects’  DOMINANT  EMOTIONS
in  your  headline  and  lead  copy  to  drive  readership
and  response  through  the  roof

Now that we’ve looked at 10 fears, 11 frustrations, and 8 desires we
all  share  ...

4

Let me show you how being aware of and directly addressing each of
these 29 major resident emotions can ramp up your sales copy’s
attention-getting  power,  readership  and  response.

When  you  set  out  to  create  a  sales  message  that  connects  with
prospects’ dominant resident emotions, you have no choice but to
begin  with  the  prospect.

Specifically, you begin by considering the prospect’s most intense
positive  and  negative  feelings  about  ...

• Himself or herself relative to the subject at hand ...

• The benefits your product and premiums promise ...

• The medium – direct mail, the Internet, print, or any other medium
through which your message is being delivered ...

• The offer – the product and premiums, price, payment terms,
guarantee, and the process of ordering ...

... and then, you devise ways to deal with each of these dominant
resident emotions in ways that leverage them in your favor: Get
them working FOR you; never against you.

When  you  get  it  right,  the  attention-getting  power,  readership  and
response of your promotions skyrockets. When you get your
prospect’s emotions working for you ...

RESISTANCE is FUTILE!

Here’s a promotion for Phillips Publishing’s Retirement Letter – one of
their flagship publications in the 1980s and early 1990s, edited at
the time by my old friend and fellow (former) Prescott, Arizona
resident, Pete Dickinson. You can zoom in to make the promo image
larger and the copy easier to read.

This promo could have simply led with
a headline that said, “Retire RICH!” – a
big benefit to be sure. But that kind of
lead can lack credibility and worse, it
misses  the  opportunity  to  fully  activate
the  prospect’s  dominant  resident
emotions  about  retirement.

Instead,  this  lead  connects  with
prospects at a deeper, far more
emotional level – and in doing so,
accomplishes  six  major  objectives  ...

1. It transforms passive emotions
(guilt and frustration) into active

5

ones (anger and the thirst for revenge): Most people begin
planning for retirement far too late in life and whenever the subject
is raised, the first feelings they have are a) fear and b) guilt.

By putting the blame on others (politicians, bureaucrats and
brokers),  this  lead  instantly  assuages  the  prospect’s  feelings  of  guilt
– saying, in effect, “It’s not your fault!”

Plus, by making others responsible for the prospect’s predicament,
this lead transforms his fear into anger – a far more actionable
emotion – and offers him a way to act on it.

And,  it  validates  this  newfound  righteous  indignation  by  having  Pete
express it for the prospect in a personal, emotionally charged
“declaration  of  war”  that  instantly  makes  Pete  the  unchallenged
leader  in  this  fight.

2. It eliminates the “salesman/prospect” dynamic: Recognizing
how we all feel when confronted by a salesperson – uncomfortable,
skeptical, guarded – is also a powerful “dominant emotion”
technique.

In  this  lead,  Pete  is  not  presented  as  someone  who  wants  to  sell  the
reader anything. Instead, he’s in the same boat the prospect is –
fighting for his own retirement – and prepared to lead the prospect
into a comfortable, financially secure future of his own.

Pete  is  positioned  as  a  powerful  ally  and  champion  who  is
unapologetically  on  the  prospect’s  side  –  the  first  step  in  making
Pete  and  the  prospect  fast  friends.

3. It offers the prospect an instantaneous emotional bribe for
reading this: After activating the prospect’s feelings about the
enemies  of  his  retirement,  he  is  offered  the  emotional  satisfaction  of
“striking back” and getting “sweet revenge” against the scoundrels
who are cheating him.

Again – a great dominant emotion technique: You deliver an
emotional reward – a kind of vaporware “premium” – instantly and
completely free of charge. The prospect doesn’t have to buy a thing;
gratification  is  instant.

4. It delivers Pete’s “Big Promise” as a Unique Selling Proposition:
Pete’s vision for the reader is bigger and better than the prospect’s
own vision – “a richer lifestyle in retirement than you have now!”

This promise works well on two levels ...

FIRST,  it  raises  a  fascinating  proposition.  Most  of  us  just  assume
that we’ll have to make compromises when we begin living on a
fixed  income.

6

Pete says, “THAT’S WRONG: You can actually live better in
retirement than you are now.” Who in their right mind wouldn’t feel
eager to hear more?

SECOND, it works by calling out the two major types of prospects for
the Retirement Letter: a) Folks who are speeding toward retirement,
and b) People who are already retired. No matter which category you
fall  into,  this  lead  tells  you  that  this  message  is  for  YOU.

5. It includes a powerful credibility element: Dominant emotion
selling  considers  all  of  the  emotions  the  prospect  is  feeling  when
reading the message. And to our over advertised-to prospects,
skepticism  is  definitely  resident  –  especially  after  the  presentation  of
a “big benefit” or USP.

This cover addressed prospects’ skepticism head-on in just 9 words:
“197,000 successful Americans over 40 have already done it!”

Not  only  does  this  line  suspend  the  reader’s  disbelief,  it  suggests
that an elite group of people are actually living the high life he only
dreams  about  ...  and  that  this  is  his  invitation  to  join  them.

6. It includes a second bribe just for opening the package: Earlier,
the prospect was told that Pete would deliver a powerful and
instantaneous  emotional  benefit  if  they  would  only  read  this.  He
would help them get “sweet revenge” and “set things right.”

Now,  Pete  is  also  promising  to  deliver  a  tangible  benefit  right  in  this
magalog – a “free gift” just for reading this – a “CENTER PULL-OUT
SECTION: Retirement Lies That Could Cost You Everything You Ever
Worked For.”

Again, this banner at the bottom of the page pulls double duty by
also  presenting  the  “horrifying  alternative”  –  the  consequences  of
failing  to  listen  to  what  Pete  has  to  say.

That’s a LOT to accomplish with just 65 words!

I count just 65 words of headline deck copy on this cover – and
they  cover  the  prospect’s  most  dominant  resident  emotions  at
every level ...

• His feelings of guilt regarding his own failure to provide a more
comfortable retirement for himself and his spouse and his fear of
poverty and dependence in retirement ...

•  His  disdain  for  politicians  and  bureaucrats  who  constantly  seemed
to be taking something away from him – never giving anything back
– and for brokers who promise the moon but invariably fail to make
him rich enough to retire comfortably ...

7

• His yearning that justice be done, and even ...

• His skepticism about claims made in direct mail promotions and
the pitchmen who make them.

Here are four more headlines and decks – see if you can spot how
they use the principles of dominant resident emotion copy to connect
with prospects on a visceral level. Again, You can zoom in to make
the promo image larger and the copy easier to read.

For each promotion, ask yourself: How could employing these six
objectives  ramp  up  the  attention-getting  power,  readership,  and
response to the ads I’m working on right now?

Go ahead and take some time to work it …

     Next, we’ll see how your prospects’ resident emotions can go
beyond headline and deck copy – and power-up your ad copy too!

8

Super Weapons #36-#43
8  Ways  to  spot  dominant  emotions  your  prospects
already  have  that  could  skyrocket
your  response  rates!

We’ve  looked  at  how  identifying  the  dominant  resident  emotions
regarding your major theme and the benefits your product offers can
kick your headlines and lead up a notch.

Now, I want to answer the question I get asked most often about
dominant emotion copywriting … “How do I KNOW what my
prospects are feeling?”

Here are several techniques I recommend...

1. Walk a mile in your prospects’ shoes

If you have a vivid imagination, you’ll be surprised at how many of
your prospects’ resident emotions you can identify simply by thinking.

Close your eyes and put yourself in the prospects’ shoes. Let the
people you’re about to speak to — speak to you first.

As I sat down to begin writing my first Health & Healing promotion, I
did exactly that. I leaned back in my chair, closed my eyes and
mentally inserted myself into the shoes of a 50- to 70-year-old man
(our target demographic) whose life was plagued by chronic health
problems  ...  endless  doctor  visits  ...  taking  fistfuls  of  costly
prescription drugs every day ... suffering horrific side-effects from
those drugs ... and never really getting any better.

I saw myself showing up at the doctor’s office on time, cooling my
heels in the waiting room reading dull magazines for an hour, waiting
for my name to be called.

I vicariously experienced being ushered into the exam room - and
then, made to wait even longer.

Finally, I saw the doctor hurriedly burst through the door, ask me a
cursory question or two, scribble a few chicken scratches on a
prescription pad and vanish as quickly as he had come.

As I saw myself experiencing what my prospects experience every
day,  I  started  feeling  the  emotions  they  were  feeling:  Frustration
with health problems that their doctors couldn’t seem to cure ...
afraid  of  the  consequences  of  failing  health  ... exhausted  by  doctor
visits  that  interrupted  their  lives  ...  worried  about  the  cost  and
side-effects  of  conventional  medicine  ...  embarrassed  by  the
intrusive poking and prodding ... and disgusted with doctors who
never  seemed  to  take  a  personal  interest  in  them.

9

Wow. Did that exercise ever bring my copy to life!

Being the prospect is even easier when writing for the investment and
finance markets. You don’t even need an imagination. You can experience
precisely what your prospects are feeling every day of the year.

The very first thing I tell every copywriter who’s eager to break into
the  investment  newsletter  promotion  field  —  before  we  even  begin
talking about the writing process or the principles of great direct
response copy — is this:

“The first thing you do, open a brokerage account. Take all the
money you have in the world and put it into that account. No fair
using a few hundred bucks you wouldn’t miss if you lost it. You’ve
got to have enough at stake so that you’ll be thrilled when your
principal grows and crushed when it declines.”

“Then, start investing. Get advice from a broker and follow it with
some of your money.

“Subscribe to a couple of investment advisory newsletters, and follow
the guru’s advice with another chunk of your money.

“Then, do some research on your own, and invest the rest of your
money into stocks and mutual funds that you like.”

That’s it. I don’t have to say another word. Nobody who takes that
advice and follows it to the letter, ever has to wonder how investors
feel — ever again.

Suddenly, CNBC is the most riveting channel on TV and the thrill you
get from reading Forbes makes Playboy seem dull by comparison!

The announcement of a quarter-point interest rate hike that once
passed virtually unnoticed suddenly sends chills down your spine. A
half-point hike gets you quaking in your boots.

When someone talks about an investor who struck it rich, you hang
on every word. And you have an irresistible urge to knock on wood
when you hear about someone who was taken to the cleaners.

And suddenly, the rumor of soaring earnings at a sexy young
company gets you almost excited as ... well, I’ll leave it up to you to
fill in your own metaphor ...

Then, one day, things really get interesting. You find a monthly brokerage
statement lurking in your mailbox. How does that make you feel?

Are you eager to open it? Or do you feel like hiding it quick before
your spouse — who secretly suspects you’re not that bright but loves
you anyway — sees it?

10

Now, you’ve opened and read the thing. How does that feel? Are you
thinking  that  silk-screening  it  on  a  tee-shirt  and  hitting  the  nearest
bar will help you meet chicks? Would plastering Xerox copies all over
your bedroom walls get you lucky tonight?

Or would burying it along with Rover’s droppings in the back yard be
a  better  idea?

Or, do you just feel disappointed — like you took a huge risk,
suffered  through  intense  emotional  highs  and  lows,  wasted  a  whole
month of your life and have nothing to show for it?

Now — and this will take some imagination for younger people —
imagine that you have all these feelings and you’re just a few short
years from retirement. Every month that flies by brings you 30 days
closer to having to live on income generated by the paltry balance on
that  brokerage  statement.

And now, as you sit there with your results in hand, how do you feel?

How do you feel about your broker? Is he a saint? Or a bum?

What do you want to do to those gurus whose advice you followed?
Kiss them? Curse them?

Does this experience — whether good or bad — leave you wanting to
find other investment newsletters and give them a try? Or is it
convincing you that you could do better on your own?

Whatever your answers, chances are, they’re the answers the vast
majority of your prospects would give, too.

Since they were investing in the same markets you were, at the same
time you were, the odds are that many, if not most of them shared
similar experiences — and have similar feelings about those experiences.

Now, since I write mostly for the health and investment markets, it
only makes sense that I’d draw these examples from what I know.
But no matter what you’re selling ... no matter who you’re selling it
to,  the  process  is  the  same.

Putting yourself into your prospects’ shoes can get you a long, long
way towards connecting your products strongest benefits with your
prospects’  most  compelling  emotions.

2. Chat up your friends and family

Everyone you know is a consumer. Chances are, some of them are
even prospects for the product you’re writing for now. Who knows?
Their names could even be on the mailing list your copy is going to
be  mailed  to!

11

They’re close by, dying to hear from you anyway, and their input
costs  you  nothing.

Ask about their experiences and feelings relative to the things your
product  does;  the  benefits  it  offers.  Which  benefits  have  the
greatest value to them — and why? What would prevent them from
buying it from you — right now? How do they feel about other
products like yours?

As  you  talk,  be  especially  sensitive  to  the  intensity  with  which  they
respond to your questions. It will give you clues to which of these
thoughts and feeling are most dominant and which are not.

3. Talk to strangers

When someone asks me what I do for a living, I simply say
something like, “Right now, I’m writing about _________ .” And fill in
the blank with whatever it is I am writing about.

Sometimes,  it  almost  feels  like  my  conversation  partner  has  just
been hit by an adrenalin dart. Everything he or she knows, thinks,
has  experienced  and  feels  relative  to  the  subject  comes  pouring
out  in  torrents.

Try it!  Sometimes, they even write my headlines for me!

4. Immerse yourself in the popular culture

When I’m beginning work on a new package, I often start by taking
the day off. I don’t mean “off-off” — just out of the office.

I clamber up into my trusty pick-up and tool on over to the Barnes &
Noble ... make a beeline for the magazine section ... and start
scooping up everything that I think my prospects might be reading.

Here’s how you do it …

If you’re writing a package on a health product, start with all the
magazines  relating  to  health.  An  investment  product?  All  the  money
mags. And so on.

That’s your psychographic  pile.

Next, look at all the magazines designed for the demographic you’re
going to be addressing. Women ... men ... senior citizens ... whatever.

Finally,  browse  the  book  sections  for  titles  that  connect  with  the
subject at hand. And finally, go through the rack that features The
New  York  Times  non-fiction  best-sellers.

Pick up anything that you even remotely suspect your prospects may
be reading. And don’t cheap out and browse them in the store.  You

12

need to pay up and take them home. Remember, it’s a write-off.
Uncle Sam will pay for nearly half of your research materials.

Then come home and settle down in front of the TV and flip over to a
cable network that’s targeted at your audience. CNBC, Lifetime,
Discovery/Health,  whatever.

Grab your highlighter, an x-acto knife, a pen, a note pad and go to
work on your pile of research ...

• Look for topics that are covered more than once or twice. It’s a
great clue that this is a major issue that your market is consumed
with. If it’s a situation that’s likely to continue for some time, it may
be a great theme or sidebar for your copy.

• Note the tone of the articles on these topics. Is the tone of the
articles excited? Sarcastic? Angry? This too, is a great clue to how
your prospects may be feeling about the topic at hand — emotions
you can stroke to better grab their attention and keep them reading.

• Look for phrases that capture the essence and energy of what
you’re going to be saying powerfully and quickly. The best ones
could become subheads or even a headline!

• Look for ads that appear several times in the magazines you
bought. Studying these ads gives you tons of ideas for the types of
emotional  appeals,  sales  arguments  and  benefits  your  prospects  are
already  responding  best  to.

• Finally, devour your stack of books, doing much the same thing.
Scan the table of contents for phrases that capture the emotion
you’re trying to connect with ... look for tone elements that are
appropriate for your message ... and if the book directly addresses
the things you’ll be writing about, you can pick up some great pieces
of data to add credibility to your copy.

How helpful is all of this — really? I’ll give you an example: When I
launched Christiane Northrup’s Health Wisdom for Women several
years  back,  a  single  book  entitled,  as  I  recall, Misdiagnosis  —  The
Treatment of Womanhood as a Disease — told me pretty much
everything I needed to know to get in touch with my prospect’s
feelings  relating  to  her  medical  care.

The launch package was another grand-slam, generating a 4%
response. How were the royalties? Humongous, thank you very much!

Why is this easy, one-day process worth its weight in gold? Simple:
Every one of the super-giant publishing companies behind these
magazines  spends  millions  on  customer  research.  Looking  at  what

13

they publish is like getting to listen in on their focus groups with
your prospects — free!

Furthermore,  each  of  these  magazines  aggressively  tests  the
fascinations  on  their  covers  to  determine  which  ones  sell  the
most  magazines.  When  you’re  reading  these  covers,  you’re  not
only  looking  at  millions  of  dollars  of  research,  you’re  looking  at
years  of  results.

Plus,  of  course,  each  of  the  repeat  advertisers  in  these  magazines
has spent years and probably millions to determine what kinds of
headlines, leads and copy tone produce the greatest response from
your prospects. Again — pure gold.

Ditto for the books. Book publishing is one of the most cut-throat,
competitive  businesses  going.  The  best  book  covers  and  liner  notes
reflect  the  very  best  marketing  intelligence  the  publishers  have  at
their command.

5. Ask customers

It’s commonly known that focus groups tend to be a total waste of
time and money for direct marketers.  Customers in focus groups try
too hard to give you the “right” answer — the answer they think you
want to hear or that makes them sound smart or insightful.

And, because they’re not backing up their phony-baloney answers
with cash, any opinions they give about your mail pieces are pretty
much  worthless.

Tracking response to your real promotions and test cells where
prospects actually put their money where their mouth is — is a far
better way to determine how your prospects are feeling.

But contrary to focus groups, customer polls — whether conducted
through the mail, over the phone or on the Internet — can be
extremely  helpful  for  identifying  resident  and  dominant  emotions.

I believe in making the questions more open-ended. Multiple choice
questions force customers into a box. You’ll be better able to read
the nuances of emotion if you encourage the customer to ramble as
much  as  possible.

Frankly, I’m surprised at how few direct response marketers do this
on a regular, scheduled, disciplined, quarterly basis. I mean — what’s
with you guys, anyway?

You own these names. They originally came from lists you’re about
to mail again. What they’re thinking and feeling are GREAT clues to
what your prospects are thinking and feeling — and could be the key
to breaking the bank with a hot new control.

14

New customer surveys can be particularly informative. Ask the
newbies what made them decide to join you. Ask them what they
expect you to do for them. Ask them how they feel about the current
environment. Ask them how you’re doing so far.

And for Pete’s sake, when you get the answers, do more than just
scan them or even worse, issue a memo with a table showing how
many answers fell into which broad category!

The answers you’re looking for are as much in the tone of the
responses as in the words on the page. So read them carefully. Read
between the lines. Let them wash over you. Sleep on them. And then
mine the heck out of them to discover the emotions that drove your
tenderfoots  to  you.

Finally, pick a handful of the most intriguing responses and follow up
with  a  phone  call.  Get  the  customers  talking.  Listen  to  the  emotion
behind his/her words. Dig until you’re sure you’ve nailed the most
dominant emotions they have about the problem your product or
service  solves  or  the  need  it  fulfills.

6. Ask ANGRY customers

When customers are complaining, they tend to let their guard down
— and tell you what they really think about you, your product and
your whole !@#$ industry(!).

Do NOT dodge these calls. Accept them cheerfully. Encourage the
customer to vent. And be sure to take copious notes.

They’ll give you clues to the reasons why at best only a tiny fraction
of the names you rent from others wind up ordering from you.

Why? Because your competitors — the folks you hope to rent a ton
of names from — are getting the exact same kinds of calls from the
people you’re planning to sell your product to!

It may just be that you’ll be exposed to some of the raw emotions your
prospects and customers are feeling, but haven’t expressed to you. And
subtly  addressing  those  feelings  can  mean  real  profit  opportunities!

Ask  yourself:  Is  there  a  way  to  eliminate  these  negative  emotions  in
my  sales  copy  without  actually  mentioning  the  complaint?

7. Divine the answer

This is a no-brainer and we all do it, so I’m not going to spend a lot
of time on it. But watching your competitors’ copy can give you clues
to the things they think are driving customers to them.

And  while  analyzing  your  competitors’  controls  line-by-line  is
“Marketing 101,” knowing what they’re testing can often be even

15

more informative. It gives you valuable clues as to what their market
research  is  telling  them  as  to  the  types  of  headlines  and  emotional
appeals that might work even better than their controls.

Oh — and while you’re at it, why not pick up the phone and ask your
competitor if he’d mind terribly if you sent a poll to a representative
sample  of  his  best  customers.

You’re  laughing.  Well,  I  suggested  that  Weiss  Research  do  just  that.
And you know what happened? The competitor said, “Sure!”

And why not? He wants to rent you his names. ALL of his names.
As often as is humanly possible. And for that to happen, your
promotions have to work well when mailed to those names. So
why not go Dutch on a survey sent to both of your files — and
share  the  results?

And don’t forget to also pay attention to what non-competitors in
similar  fields  and  even  businesses  in  completely  unrelated  industries
are doing.

Whenever you’re looking at a successful ad, direct mail package, or
any other marketing communication, have your feelers out. Which
resident  emotions  are  the  companies  behind  them  appealing  to?

8. Check the polls

The Internet is a great source of free research into your prospects’
state  of  mind  and  emotions.

My friend Carline Anglade-Cole, a crackerjack copywriter in her own
right,  absolutely  loves  doing  Internet  research.  “I  Google
EVERYTHING,”  she  says.

And when Carline says, “Everything,” she means everything about her
prospect, the products that are competing with the product she’s
selling, every topic covered in her sales copy, EVERYTHING!”

So go ahead: Ask Jeeves. Google to your heart’s content. Yahoo! your
brains out. It’s free. You might learn something. So why not?

And while you’re on-line, don’t forget to check out the great
consumer sentiment research sites. They’ve been asking your
prospects many of the same questions you have — about their fears,
desires, and more.

Yale  University  keeps  a  list  of  major  poling  organizations  at:
http://www.library.yale.edu/socsci/opinion/pollingorganizations.html

Do any of the above, and you’ll get great clues to the emotions that
are driving your prospects now.

16

Do all of them — regularly — and you’ll become a master of your
market.

You’ll also be the first to know when the dominant emotions in your
marketplace begin to change. And, you’ll be one of the first to
identify and profit from the new trend — whatever it turns out to be.

Super Weapons #44-#48

Make  your  product’s  benefits  sparkle  –  this  simple
5-step  exercise  connects  your  products’  benefits
with  your  prospects’  most  powerful  response-
boosting  emotions  exploding  your  sales  results

Are “Faux Benefits” killing your sales copy?

The other day, I had the dubious pleasure of reviewing copy
submitted by a new group of my beloved cubs – each of whom has
read The Masters and even completed courses on copywriting … and
each of whom I believe has the innate talent to (eventually) become
one  of  the  greats.

Each  cub  was  told  to  write  benefit-oriented  headlines  for  a  series  of
natural  supplement  products.

The first headline jumped up and shouted …

Get Off The Hormone Roller Coaster!

“Well,” I said to myself, “THAT certainly sucks!” And so I turned to
the next one …

Balance Blood Sugar Levels Naturally!

… And the next …

Flush Deadly Toxins Out Of Your Colon!

“Whoo boy,” I said out loud, “I should be getting combat pay for
this!”

See,  not  a  single  one  of  those  “benefit-based”  headlines  contains  a
single, real benefit! Instead, each contains a “Faux Benefit” – a
product feature masquerading as a benefit!

Apply  my  patented  “forehead  slap”  test  to  each  of  those  headlines
and you’ll see what I mean.

• Have you ever been awakened in the middle of the night … sat bolt
upright in bed … slapped yourself on the forehead and exclaimed,
“Holy Moley – I gotta get off of the hormone roller coaster?”

17

• When was the last time you were jarred out of a deep sleep
exclaiming “Jeez Louise – I need to balance my blood sugar levels
naturally!”

• And have you EVER jumped out of a warm bed to holler, “I gotta
flush some deadly toxins out of my colon!”

No? Me neither!

Have you ever found yourself feeling eager to PAY for a product that
would do any of those things for you?

Nope? Join the club!

I mean – getting off the hormone roller coaster sounds like it might
be a good thing. On the other hand, roller coasters are fun. Heck.
People pay money to get ONTO them!

I suppose balancing blood sugar levels is good, too. And if you’re
making a list of folks who are “all for” flushing deadly toxins out of
my colon – or any other part of my body for that matter – put me at
the  top  of  it.

But are these really benefits our prospects crave – and are willing to
pay for?

Of course not. Our “hormone balancing” prospects want to stop
having  hot  flashes  and  mood  swings  and  stop  losing  their  libidos.

Why? Well, for one thing, because hot flashes and mood swings are
irritating – even miserable. And for another – drilling down even
deeper – because all of these things threaten the intimacy and
security of their primary relationships. Nobody wants to be a
hormone hermit!

Nobody really wants to balance their blood sugar levels, either. But
anyone in his or her right mind DOES want to avoid the misery of
blindness … cold, numb, painful limbs … amputation … and premature
death  that  go  along  with  diabetes.

And frankly, while “flushing toxins out of my colon” is nowhere near
the top of my personal “to do” list, I WOULD prefer not to be
constipated, or plagued with uncontrollable diarrhea, or have to poop
in a bag for the rest of my life, or die from colon cancer.

The  Faux  Benefits  heralded  in  these  headlines  are  mechanisms  …
processes … product features that deliver benefits. They are not, in
themselves, real benefits that anybody craves or wants to pay for.

My beloved copy cubs failed to drill down to the real, bottom-line,
rubber-meets-the-road benefit each product provides – the tangible,

18

measurable, real value they bring to prospects’ lives: The value that
prospects are willing to – once again – pay for.

This is a cardinal and common sin even among more seasoned
copywriters – and that business owners and marketing execs too
often  let  us  get  away  with.

Here’s  another:  Failing  to  fully  explore  the  benefits  that  each  benefit
provides. In short, squeezing every feature until you’ve explored
every benefit … and then squeezing every benefit for the secondary
benefits  IT  provides.

Confused? Let’s work through this together …

Let’s start with four basic facts …

Benefits 101

1. Every product has features: Features are merely objective facts
about a product (or the company behind it). In three-dimensional
products,  features  include  size,  shape,  weight,  construction,  color
options and more.

In information products, features include number of pages, size,
frequency of publication (for periodicals) and the types of information
that  are  presented.

2. Fortunately, most features are there for a darned good
reason: Prospects don’t want features. They want you to change
their  lives  for  the  better.

Product features are merely the means to that end. That means
features can have a place in ad copy – like telling prospects how
many issues they’ll get per year … how many big pages are in your
book … or that your widget is made from carbon steel for strength or
carbon fiber for lightness.

Beyond that, features are a yawn because they’re about the product;
not about the prospect. Or, as in the examples above, they can help
demonstrate how your product delivers a benefit.

The good news is, just about every product fact – every feature – is
there to provide a benefit that your prospect IS willing to pay for.

3. There are more benefits associated with each product feature
than are dreamt of by most copywriters: Benefits are like bunny
rabbits: Give them a little time and they’ll begin multiplying – each
benefit or combination of benefits producing one, two, three or more
new benefits you never thought about before.

The secret to kick-butt sales copy is to identify each and every
benefit a product provides – and then to look at each benefit and

19

ask,  “What  does  THAT  do  for  me?  What  additional  benefits  does  that
benefit  provide?”

4. Your prospect has strong feelings about every dimensionalized
benefit you present: Connecting each fully dimensionalized
product  benefit  with  a  strong  emotion  that  your  prospect  already
has  about  the  benefit  (or  the  lack  of  it  in  his/her  life)  makes
sales  copy  irresistible.

Benefits that sing and soar
— in five simple steps

Here’s a little exercise to help you drill down to the benefits
prospects  are  willing  to  pay  for  …  fully  dimensionalize  those  benefits
…  and  then  connect  those  benefits  with  powerful  response-boosting
emotions that your prospect already has about those benefits (or the
lack of them) in his life.

By the time you’re through, you will have a complete list of company
and product features … you will have squeezed every possible benefit
out  of  those  features  …  you  will  have  fully  dimensionalized  those
benefits … and you will have connected each one to a powerful
emotion your prospect has about each one of them.

In  short,  you’ll  have  a  comprehensive  “features/benefits/dominant
emotion” inventory you can refer to as you write your copy.

I do NOT suggest that you do this on every project. After a while,
this kind of thinking comes naturally. But even for more advanced
writers – and especially for folks who supervise writers – going
through this exercise can go a long way towards finding new themes
and adding power to your promotions.

To  begin,  create  a  spreadsheet  with  these  headings:

20

 Step #1:
Create a Comprehensive FEATURES Inventory

If you’ve read any books or taken any courses on direct response
copywriting, you’ve probably learned that features are immaterial.
Only  benefits  matter.

Only problem is, that’s just horse-pucky.

Features are the fathers of each benefit your product provides. And if
every product benefit has its roots in a product feature, identifying
and  fully  understanding  each  feature  is  essential  to  identifying  all
the benefits your product provides.

And  so,  if  features  are  the  fathers  of  benefits,  it  makes  sense  to
begin at the beginning – by listing all the key facts about 1) The
business and 2) The product or service you’re promoting.

Start by answering the following questions about the company and the
spokesperson behind the product in the first column of your table …

A. “What are your qualifications?” What degrees or certifications
have you earned in your field of endeavor? From which institutions?
What associations are you a member of? How many years have you
provided this product or service?

How many customers (patients, clients, etc.) have you served? Are
you  the  largest  or  oldest  in  your  area  of  expertise?  What  specialties
do you offer that your competitors don’t?

B. “What resources do you use to produce a superior product or
service?” How large an army are you putting to work on the
prospect’s  behalf?  Who  are  the  stand-out  players?  What  unique  or
proprietary tools do you use to produce the desired result?

Do you have custom computer programs or hardware that nobody
else has? How many customer service reps are available to make
ordering comfortable and easy? How many service techs are on your
payroll who can respond when the product needs service?

C. “How is your location a factor?” Are you closer to your prospects
than your competition? Are your headquarters impressive-looking? Is
your office close to a major intersection or freeway off-ramp? Do you
offer plenty of free parking?

Or, if you’re promoting a product for a national company, how does
its location help you produce a superior product? Are you offering an
investment product that’s produced on Wall Street or anywhere in
New York, for example? Or are you selling a politically oriented
product that’s produced in or near Washington D.C.?

21

D. “What’s your reaction time?” Are appointments readily
available? Do you perform your service faster than your competition
does? If I order this product, how fast will I get it?

E. Inventory: How many different products do you have available?
How does that compare to what your competitors offer?

Product or Service Features

Now, it’s time to really start digging – with answers about the
product or service you’re offering ...

A. Purpose: What, exactly, does your product or service do? If it
accomplishes several things, great – list everything you can think of!

B. Physical dimensions: How does your product compare to
competing products? Is it smaller? Bigger? Lighter? Heavier duty?

If it’s a published product, how many pages are in the book or the
regular  issues  of  the  newsletter  or  magazine?  Is  the  page  size  larger
that what the prospect may be used to?

Are there illustrations, charts, or graphs? Is it written simply – in a
way that’s easy to understand? Does it give clear, concise directions
that anyone could follow? How many times do customers hear from
your client each year (count regular issues, bonus issues, e-mail
alerts,  web  site  updates,  etc.)?  What  regular  features  are  included?

If you offer nutritional supplements, are your pills smaller than the
competition’s? Does the prospect have to take fewer of them, or take
them just once a day? What are the ingredients? Are they fresher than
those used by some other competitors? More absorbable? More potent?

C. Performance metrics: How quickly can your product be delivered,
installed and/or begin producing results? How fast does your product
complete the desired task? How thoroughly does it do its job? How
long does it last? How do your product’s performance metrics
compare to similar products offered by your competitors?

For investment products, what results has it produced for investors in
the recent past? How did it perform at key turning points in the
economy or markets – the tech wreck of 2000, or the gold price
explosion of the 1970s, for example? How and when did it help
prevent investors from making major blunders?

For health products, how fast does it work? How can I know it’s
working? What studies have proven that it works? Or for information
merchants, what health breakthroughs were you the first to
publicize?  How  else  does  the  past  performance  of  the  author,  editor
or  the  product  itself  demonstrate  the  superiority  or  indispensability
of the product?

22

D. Credibility: What have customers, subscribers, peers and others
said about your product or service? What guarantees and/or
warranties come with it? How do they compare to what the
competition  offers?

E. Available options: What choices does your product offer to prospects?
What colors or sizes does it come in? How do your terms make ordering
the best fit possible for customers? Is it customizable in any way? How do
these choices make your product superior to the competition?

F. Timeliness: How quickly can your product be delivered and/or
installed?  How  does  this  compare  with  the  competition?

G. Pricing: What are your prices? How do they compare to the
competition? Do you deliver more for the money? Or does your
product’s quality demand a higher price?

If applicable, divide your price by the numbers 12, 52 and 365 — and
then write down the product’s cost per month, week and day.

These are just a few idea-starters — please do not stop here!

Use this opportunity to think through every step of the process that
your prospects experience when shopping for, buying and using your
product or service.

Step #2:
Attach a “Why” to Each Feature

The next step is to figure out why these features are included in the
product or service, and then to turn those reasons into tangible
benefits  that  will  bring  value  to  the  customer’s  life.

So now, in the “WHY?” column next to each feature, enter the
benefits  each  feature  provides.

Example: If you’re selling a high quality drill bit, your entry might
look  like  this:

Feature: Constructed of carbon steel.

Why: Never wears out.

On the other hand, if you’re promoting a dentist, your list might look
like  this:

Feature: A TV in every exam room.

Why: More comfortable for the patient and time passes more quickly.

The “why” for an investment newsletter might go like this ...

Feature: Daily e-zine included with subscription to monthly newsletter.

23

Why: Stocks move fast; opportunities could be lost without split-
second  updates.

Or, if you’re writing for a book on health, you might write ...

Feature: Specific prescription for each age group on each
supplement  recommended.

Why: To eliminate reader confusion.

Attach as many “whys” to each feature as you can.

My guess is that as you review your completed list, you’ll be getting
pretty excited. And for good reason: Your brain is already beginning
to take the next step — visualizing how these features improve your
customers’  lives!

Step #3:
Turn Features into Benefits

The simple act of completing Steps #1 and #2 above could easily
multiply  sales  and  profits  at  tens  of  thousands  of  businesses  from
coast  to  coast  —  merely  by  shifting  the  spotlight  off  of  the  advertiser
and his product or service and on to why their features are important
to  the  customer.

But still, we focused entirely on a company and a product or service.
Now, we’re going to bring your prospect into the picture — and
answer the question, “What’s in it for me? How does each of these
features  —  these  facts  about  the  business  and  product  or  service  —
directly connect with and improve my life?”

Think about how each feature and “Reason Why” benefits your
customer, and list every possible way each one of them brings value
to your prospect’s life.

We’re  going  to  ask  the  one  question  that’s  constantly  at  the  forefront
of your customer’s mind: “What’s in it for me?”

And we’re going to answer by listing the problems your product or
service  solves  ...  the  desires  it  fulfills  ...  and  the  future  disasters  it
will help your customers avoid.

Be  sure  to  think  about  immediate  benefits  as  well  as  those  the
customer will experience later on.

If you’re selling one-hour oil changes for example, you can save your
customer oodles of time right now, today. But you also make it easy
for him to properly maintain the family chariot, thereby helping him
avoid an inconvenient or even dangerous breakdown and costly
repairs later on.

24

Write each benefit as a “you” statement — as if you’re talking face-
to-face with your prospective customer, patient or client.

Then, go back over your list of benefits … look at each one … and ask
yourself,  “What  additional  benefits  does  this  benefit  bring  to  my
life?” Keep drilling down until you hit the Mother Lode – the benefits
that mean the most and bring the most value to prospects’ lives.

Step #4:
Dimensionalize each benefit

I don’t know who first coined the word “dimensionalize.” I do know
that it drives my spell-checker bonkers, so it’s probably not in any
dictionary you’ll ever see.

But the word “dimensionalize” does a great job of describing what
“A” level copywriters do – the extra mile we travel to make sure each
benefit  in  our  copy  is  as  compelling  as  possible.

When you “dimensionalize” a benefit, you give it added dimension by
painting word pictures of all the ways the prospect will enjoy that
benefit.  You  compare  that  benefit  with  those  offered  by  others.  You
add  specifics  that  demonstrate  all  the  ways  the  benefit  will  enrich
the  prospect’s  life.

When you’ve finished, your list may look something like this, for
example:

Feature: Constructed of carbon steel.

Why: Never wears out.

Benefit: The last drill bit you’ll ever buy.

Dimensionalized Benefit: You can save up to $75 a year in broken
drill bits ... hours of unnecessary trips to the hardware store ... and
hundreds of dollars in lost income!

Or in our hypothetical promotion for a dentist, your list might look
like  this:

Feature: A TV in every exam room.

Why: More comfortable for the patient and time passes more quickly.

Benefit: Your appointment is over before you know it!

Dimensionalized benefit: Great for fidgety kids: The time zips by. In
fact,  just  last  week,  littlie  Jimmy  asked  if  he  could  stay  longer.

The benefit drawn from a feature offered by an investment
newsletter  might  go  like  this  ...

25

Feature: Daily e-zine included with subscription to monthly
newsletter.

Why: Stocks move fast; opportunities could be lost without constant
updates.

Benefit: You’ll never get caught wondering what to do when major
events break!

Dimensionalize: You’ll lock in your profits when the market sags and
go for even greater profit potential by getting into each up-move on
the ground floor.

Or, if you’re writing for a book on health, your list might look
something  like  this  ...

Feature: Specific prescription for each age group on each
supplement  recommended.

Why: To eliminate reader confusion.

Dimensionalize: You’ll always know precisely what you should be
taking ... how much you should be taking ... and even when to take it.

Step #5:
Connect each dimensionalized benefit
with a dominant resident emotion

I’ve already written reams about this – so there’s no need to go into
great  detail  at  this  time.

But let’s take the example of the health book above …

Feature: Specific prescription for each age group on each
supplement  recommended.

Why: To eliminate reader confusion.

Dimensionalize: You’ll always know precisely what you should be
taking ... how much you should be taking ... and even when to
take  it.

Dominant Resident Emotion: You’ll feel completely confident and
independent … Not reliant on your children, friends or a medical
provider  for  assistance  …  Able  to  sleep  better  at  night  knowing
you’re not a burden on your family … At peace because you’ll live a
long,  healthy  life  with  plenty  of  quality  time  to  spend  with  your
precious  grandchildren.

The point is simply to identify how your prospect is likely to feel
about  each  of  the  dimensionalized  benefits  on  your  list.

26

Do NOT stop at listing just one emotion per benefit. Think about how
the prospect feels about the lack of this benefit in his or her life
now. And about how the prospect will feel as he or she is enjoying
that  benefit.  And  about  how  they(cid:146)ll  feel  as  others  see  them  doing
things better (cid:133) being healthier (cid:133) richer (cid:133) happier.

One last thing: When you(cid:146)re done, review your inventory and rate
each  benefit/emotion  combination  on  a  scale  of  one  to  five.

As you assign each ranking, think about three things:

1) The relative importance of the improvement each benefit brings to
prospects(cid:146) lives: A benefit that can prevent cancer would be scored
higher than one that merely produces sweeter breath, for example (cid:133)

2) The relative number of prospects most likely to covet that
particular improvement: More people are likely to have arthritis
than cancer (cid:133)

3)  The  relative  intensity  of  the  emotion(s)  connected  to  each  benefit.

Finally,  sort  the  entire  spreadsheet  by  these  rankings  in
descending  order.

When you(cid:146)re done, you(cid:146)ll have systematically created a
comprehensive  inventory  of  features,  benefits  and  dominant
emotions for your product.

Then, USE your inventory to make sure you press every possible hot
button as you begin writing your copy (cid:150) and please, for mercy(cid:146)s sake
(cid:150)  to  get  real,  dimensionalized,  emotionalized  BENEFITS  into  your
headline and lead copy!

Good luck and most of all (cid:150) Have Fun!

Yours for Bigger Winners, More Often,

Clayton  Makepeace
Publisher  &  Editor
THE  TOTAL  PACKAGE

Ad Writers Arsenal is published by Clayton Makepeace and The Profit
Center(cid:153) and is fully protected under United States copyright laws.
You may not reprint or distribute this material without written
permission from the author.
Are you reading The Total Package?
Sign-up  today  at  www.MakepeaceTotalPackage.com


