Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

Introduction

GOMTM stands for “grumpy old man” or “grumpy old men”—more specifically, males

age 50 and older.  To be a GOM, you have to be a man born 1958 or earlier.

Because GOM are a primary market for many products and services sold through

direct response (DR)—both offline and online—you can increase response rates by

tailoring your DR copy to the needs, desires, and concerns of the GOM market.

GOM respond to a wide spectrum of direct response offers—everything from life

insurance and investments, to adult education and business opportunities, to nutritional

supplements and health care, to books and newsletters. The term grumpy old men used

to describe a market segment may have originated with Agora Publishing CEO Bill

Bonner, who has for many years described the market for his stock market newsletters

as “grumpy old men.”

Copyright 2008 by CTC Publishing
Reproduction of any portion of this booklet is permitted for individual use if credit is given to Bob
Bly. Systematic or multiple reproduction or distribution of any part of this booklet or inclusion in
publications for sale is permitted only with prior written permission.

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      1

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

The GOM Market: an Overview

GOM are a subset of the male half of two other market segments: Matures and Baby

Boomers.

Baby Boomers are people born between 1946 and 1963. Matures are people born 1945 or

before.

While only those Boomers born between 1947 and 1958 are GOM, GOM of all ages share

certain characteristics with Boomers.

According to an article in DM News (5/12/08, p. 8), 61% of Boomers are not brand loyal

and 67% won’t buy if they find ads offensive—traits they share with GOM.

GOM represent more than 10% of the U.S. population: there are some 35 million

American men over the age of 50. Add females to the equation, and the total number of

American consumers age 50 and older is more than 91 million—expected to grow to 113

million by 2017.

The median family income for a household in which one of the wage earners is a GOM

between 50 and 64 years of age is $50,252. After 65, annual household income drops to

$29,120 as the GOM retire.

The American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) has 39 million members age 50

and older, both male and female. About half of AARP members are working. According

to an article in USA Today (11/30/07), the 50+ generation controls “trillions” in

spending power.

Like so many Americans, GOM live a comfortable lifestyle compared with the rest of the

world, but they are not wealthy. The median net worth for a GOM age 50 to 64 is only

$54,579, according to AARP.

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      2

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

10 Tips for Marketing to GOM

Here are 10 characteristics of GOM that can give you greater insight into writing copy

aimed at this market:

1—GOM are grumpy.

Many men age 50 and older don’t think of themselves as “old.”

But age 50 is a major milestone, and it often signals changes in attitude, behavior, and

consumer spending.

Like any other person, the GOM is complex, and it is dangerous to stereotype.

However, a large number of GOM do share, to one degree or another, certain defining

characteristics.

One of these characteristics is grumpiness or short temper. As GOM age, they become

increasingly irritable and curmudgeonly.

For many men, age brings a new set of problems that causes them to be discontent or

even unhappy with certain aspects of their lives (not all)…and as a result, more grouchy.

These problems include:

(cid:31)        Onset of illness or health conditions.

(cid:31)        Inability to adapt to new technology.

(cid:31)        Feeling obsolete or removed from the mainstream youth culture.

(cid:31)        Lack of physical and mental energy.

(cid:31)        Insomnia or other trouble sleeping.

(cid:31)        Weight gain.

(cid:31)        Hair loss and hair turning gray or white.

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      3

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

(cid:31)        Dental problems.

(cid:31)        Worsening eyesight.

(cid:31)        Loss of hearing.

(cid:31)        Enlarged prostate increasing urination frequency.

(cid:31)        Worries about having money in retirement.

(cid:31)        Evaporation of familiar family unit in household as children move out.

While the older male on average has greater net worth than younger males, he is

actually not better off financially.

Yes, he may have more money and disposable income. But his peak earning years are

over—or will be soon.

In retirement, his income will decline drastically, and he will become dependent on his

pension and other savings to live.

The younger man still has the potential to get wealthy through long-term investing by

taking advantage of compound interest. But this opportunity has largely passed the

GOM by.

Yes, the GOM has many positives to his life: more free time, a sense of achievement, and

retirement to look forward to.

But the many drawbacks of aging GOM face make them crankier than the younger

generation. Among their most frequent targets for complaint: Wall Street,

pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, Medicare, Social Security, the federal

government, the media, teenagers, corporations, politicians.

Tip: If you can identify what irks GOM in your market, and empathize with their

antipathy towards that enemy, you can bond on a deep emotional level with your GOM

prospects.

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      4

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

Example: In a political fundraising letter aimed at GOM voters, you can get them on

your side by acknowledging their distrust of the liberal media and young, free-spending

Democrats.

2—GOM are interested in making money.

Financial planners frequently cite a net worth of $1 million as the figure needed for a

comfortable retirement. Some sources put the figure close to $2 million or even $3

million, a net worth enjoyed by fewer than 7% of all American households.

Therefore, males are focused on career and money throughout most of their lives, and

the focus intensifies as they approach retirement and find that their net worth is below

the $1 million target.

GOM are looking for safe, low-risk ways of earning money and increasing their

retirement nest eggs. These may be investments (mutual funds) or business

opportunities (starting a small business in your spare time).

After a lifetime working at the same career or job, GOM are looking for new challenges.

They remain eager to learn new things, so long as those experiences are within their

comfort zone.

In fact, the increased leisure time they enjoy as they enter retirement makes them a

great market for all sorts of continuing education including books, audio programs,

DVDs, online membership sites, book clubs, magazine subscriptions, and seminars—

both on practical (e.g., investing) as well as purely intellectual (e.g., history of ancient

Greece) topics.

Tip: in investment copy aimed at GOM, position your financial product as offering

above-average market returns with lower-than-average risk.

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      5

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

3—GOM want to preserve their wealth, freedom, good health, and other things they

value.

GOM realize they do not want to “start over” in life, and therefore are risk-averse

investors.

The GOM’s priority, even above increasing his wealth, is to hold on to what he has. If

you are selling a business opportunity, it should require little or no start-up capital—not

a major investment. If you are marketing investment advice, the GOM may be willing to

sacrifice some percentage points of return in exchange for reduced risk.

GOM respond well to identity theft protection, insurance, mutual funds, and other offers

that provide a degree of protection against depletion of capital.

There was a TV commercial for McDonald’s some years ago showing a retired, elderly

looking GOM starting a new part-time job—working for McDonald’s as a server.

The idea was to create a warm and fuzzy feeling, but the commercial did the opposite:

GOM, seeing this poor old guy wearing a paper hat and answering to a teenage boss, had

an immediate visceral reaction: they would do anything to AVOID being that guy.

When you reach the point where you have more years behind you than in front of you,

you want increasing freedom and choice…and to have that, you need money.

GOM may choose to work full-time or part-time in retirement in their same profession

or a different profession. But it is important to the GOM that he works because he wants

to work, and not because he has to. The former keeps his mind sharp and gives him

purpose, but the latter is slavery.

Tip: show in your copy how your product helps the GOM hold on to what he has—

whether his nest egg and house, or his health and mobility. Example: a product that

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      6

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

improves night vision enables the GOM to maintain his freedom to travel when and

where he wants by enabling him to drive at night.

4—GOM are increasingly concerned about health and longevity.

With the average male lifespan today of 74 years, a 50-year-old male’s life is two-thirds

over.

GOM are conscious of the sands of time flowing through the hour glass, and enticed by

offers to increase longevity and enjoy good health.

Like Woody Allen, who said “I am not afraid of death, I just don't want to be there when

it happens,” the GOM is starting to think about how much time is left to him on Earth.

He would like to extend that time, and also ensure that he is healthy and wealthy

enough to enjoy it.

Most GOM are or have been married and have families they care about. The GOM wants

to make sure his family, and not Uncle Sam, gets the bulk of his estate.

Among the biggest health and longevity concerns of GOM:

(cid:31)        Alzheimer’s and senility.

(cid:31)        Loss of memory.

(cid:31)        Erectile dysfunction and loss of libido.

(cid:31)        Cancer.

(cid:31)        Heart attack and cardiac illness.

(cid:31)        High cholesterol and high blood pressure.

(cid:31)        Stroke.

(cid:31)        Vertigo (loss of balance) or falling (causing bone fractures).

(cid:31)        Diabetes.

(cid:31)        Life insurance.

(cid:31)        Long-term care.

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      7

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

(cid:31)        Funeral expenses.

GOM believe in conventional medicine, go to MDs, and want to trust their physician.

At the same time, they are willing to challenge their physician and explore alternative

therapies, such as dietary supplements.

Tip: in health copy aimed at GOM, avoid the common mistake of scaring the GOM with

warnings about cancer and other illnesses he is going to get. Instead, offer him a positive

message: new hope for slowing, halting, or even reversing degenerative illness and other

age-related conditions.

5—GOM are tired of taking orders from others.

As the end of their working days appears on the horizon, GOM increasingly long for the

freedom to call their own shots—and tire of taking orders from bosses and customers.

This is why GOM are a prime market for self-help, wealth-building, and business

opportunity offers.

“Quit work” and “be your own boss” are two timeless appeals that GOM respond to.

They also like convenience and full-service options in consumer purchases, for which

they are often willing to pay a premium price.

For instance, even a GOM of modest means will spend his one week of vacation at a

first-class hotel on the ocean if it offers ease, convenience, luxury, and relaxation, even

though the cheaper hotel away from the water and in the town is more within his

budget.

Yes, the GOM keeps a careful eye on his wallet. But if he perceives you are giving great

value—not just his money’s worth, but MORE than his money’s worth—he will open that

wallet for you.

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      8

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

Tip: point out in your copy how your product or service helps the GOM to live

independently without help from family, friends, or the U.S. government.

6—GOM are frugal.

Like many other direct response buyers and other consumers, GOM like sales,

discounts, and bargains.

A successful tactic in GOM marketing is to show how your product either makes or saves

them money.

GOM also like free gifts, premiums, bonuses, and other free offers, such as free shipping

and handling or the first month’s service free.

Experiment with offers that allow your GOM buyer to spend less up front and then pay

more if he continues the service, rather than capture a big purchase price up front.

For instance, a marketer selling a course on how to trade options as a home business

offered a membership for $29 a month. Sales increased when he added the offer of a 14-

day trial period up front for just one dollar.

Tip: always stress money savings and special offers when writing to GOM. Describe the

savings as dollars rather than percentages (e.g., “save $10” instead of “10% off”).

7—GOM feel a sense of entitlement.

GOM have been paying into the “system” (Social Security, Medicare, insurance

premiums, income tax) and want their fair share.

This is why so much health care advertising aimed at GOM focuses on the fact that

Medicare pays the entire cost of the product.

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      9

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

The GOM has struggled longer than his younger counterparts, and may be worn out

from those decades of working to make ends meet.

Tip: In your copy, indicate that the GOM are entitled to the benefits of your offer as a

result of their longevity, status, or long years of service, labor, or payment (e.g., “You’ve

worked hard to get where you are….”).

8—GOM have an adversarial relationship with non-GOM.

People universally like and relate to those like them, and don’t like and feel negatively

about people NOT like them.

Therefore GOM gravitate toward other GOM, but have minimal patience with other

groups, especially Generations X and Y.

Generation Y is men and women 23 years of age or less, and GOM consider them (in

their heart of hearts) little more than children.

In business, GOM often complain to one another of having to deal with employees,

customers, vendors, and bosses who are young enough to be the GOM’s child…and they

don’t like it.

A GOM going to the doctor would rather get a doctor with gray hair than a fresh-faced

lad who looks like he’s still in medical school. GOM are just more comfortable with

people their own age.

Tip: When writing to GOM, the “voice” of the marketer should be one GOM writing to

another. If your promotion is a sales letter, the person who signs it should indicate that

he is a fellow GOM.

9—GOM are readers and information seekers.

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      10

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

GOM are a generation raised before the Internet and personal computers eroded the

human attention span.

We grew up in an age where the standard medium for the written word was the page

and not the screen—and our GOM dads relaxed on Sunday by reading the newspaper or

watching the ball game on TV, not blogging or chatting on forums.

GOM seek information on which to make important purchase decisions and will read

long copy to get the facts they need before placing an order. Just be sure not to make the

type too small.

GOM use the Internet and personal computers, but electronics are often their secondary

method of communication and research.

A Generation Y prospect might consider direct mail junk mail, toss catalogs in the trash,

and hardly ever pick up a newspaper. He gets his news from TV, radio, and the Internet.

A GOM reads and trusts newspapers more than he trusts Web sources of information,

and still looks to learn things by reading books.

Tip: do not rely on the power of your brand name to make the sale. Give GOM content—

facts, information, statistics—that prove your product’s superiority. To paraphrase

Syms, the retailer, an educated GOM is your best customer.

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      11

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

Designing marketing documents for GOM

Since vision impairments increase with age, time spent organizing your layout and using
legible design and typography will more than pay for themselves in increased audience
response when marketing or publishing to the over-50 market.

One tip: maximize contrast between the typography and the background. Reason: a
greater amount of contrast makes it easier to distinguish an image. This is especially
true for the contrast in color between text and paper.

As for type size: yes, older readers prefer large type. But type style also matters. Avoid
ornate typefaces and overuse of italics. Choose a serif type.

A bit more spacing between lines also enhances readability. Avoid extensive use of ALL
CAPS and type reversing out of a solid or screen.

Indenting paragraphs and use of standard capitalization improve reading, as do smaller
blocks of copy, shorter lines of type, and more paragraphs.

Source: Writing That Works, 1/9/08

10—GOM are marketing-responsive

While Generations X and Y may be enamored of mobile marketing, podcasting, and

social networking, GOM remain responsive to traditional direct marketing channels

including TV, radio, print advertising, and direct mail.

GOM visit Websites, use search engines, research products, comparison shop, and even

purchase products from e-commerce Websites. More than 8 out of 10 Baby Boomers in

America use the Internet.

Nearly 9 out of 10 GOMs watch TV almost every day, a higher percentage than any other

age group. And, they watch more of it. Online, only one GOM in 20 uses instant

messaging or SMS; 87% of GOMs prefer e-mail as their primary means of

communication online (source: DM News, 10/27/08, p. 8).

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      12

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

GOM also blog and frequent social networking sites like LinkedIn, YouTube, and

Twitter, though they are less likely to have an account or spend time on Facebook and

MySpace than a Generation Y.

Generations X and Y are increasingly reached through the new marketing paradigms of

“having a conversation” vs. traditional selling…and through self-service marketing (e.g.,

organic search) instead of intrusion marketing (direct mail).

GOM have developed a lifetime habit of reading, listening, and responding to

advertising and are therefore more responsive to traditional marketing programs.

Tip: Don’t hesitate to use more traditional marketing media—Yellow Pages, billboards,

TV and radio commercials, newspaper and magazine ads, direct mail—when targeting

GOM.

Summary: 10 Tips for Marketing to GOM

1—If you can identify what irks your GOM market segment, and empathize with their

antipathy towards that enemy, you can bond on a deep emotional level with your GOM

prospects.

2—In investment copy aimed at GOM, position your financial product as offering

returns above the market average with lower-than-average risk.

3—Show in your copy how your product helps the GOM hold on to what he has.

4—Avoid the common mistake of scaring the GOM with warnings about cancer and

other illnesses he is going to get. Instead, offer him a positive message of hope for

prevention or cure.

5—Point out in your copy how your product or service helps the GOM to live

independently without help from family, friends, or the U.S. government.

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      13

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

6—Always stress money savings and special offers when writing to GOM.

7—In your copy, indicate that the GOM are entitled to the benefits of your offer as a

result of their longevity, status, or long years of service.

8—When writing to GOM, the “voice” of the marketer should be one GOM writing to

another. If your promotion is a sales letter, the person who signs it should be a GOM.

9—Do not rely on the power of your brand name to make the sale. Give GOM content—

facts, information, statistics—that prove your product’s superiority.

10—Don’t hesitate to use more traditional marketing media—Yellow Pages, billboards,

TV and radio commercials, newspaper and magazine ads, direct mail—when targeting

GOM.

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      14

Marketing to GOMTM                                                                       A CTC Publishing Mini-Briefing

About the Author:

BOB BLY, age 51, is a GOM and freelance copywriter who specializes in writing to GOM.

A full-time freelance copywriter since 1982, Bob has written copy for over 100

companies including Phillips Publishing, Agora, Weiss Research, KCI, Medical

Economics, Boardroom, IBM, Lucent Technologies, and dozens more.

McGraw-Hill calls Bob Bly “America’s top copywriter,” and he was AWAI’s 2007

Copywriter of the Year. He is the author of more than 70 books including The

Copywriter’s Handbook (Henry Holt), recognized by the Direct Marketing Club of NY

as “a mini-classic of direct marketing.”

Questions and comments on “Marketing to GOM” may be sent to:

Bob Bly

Copywriter / Consultant

590 Delcina Drive

River Vale, NJ 07675

Phone 201-505-9451

Fax 201-573-4094
E-mail rwbly@bly.com
Website www.bly.com

You can download additional copies of Marketing to GOM here:

www.marketing2goms.com

©2008 by CTC Publishing                                                                                                      15


